doc/rest-muc-client.md, before:

The configuration for the XMPP client connections that jitsi-videobridge uses can be modified at run time using REST calls to `/colibri/muc-client/`.

# Adding an XMPP client connection
A new XMPP client connection (i.e. a MucClient) can be added by posting a JSON which contains its configuration to `/colibri/muc-client/add`:
```
{
  "id": "new-client-connection",
  "domain":"xmpp.example.com",
  "hostname":"10.0.0.1",
  "username":"xmpp-username",
  "password":"xmpp-password",
  "muc_jids":"JvbBrewery@conference.xmpp.example.com",
  "muc_nickname":"unique-resource",
  "disable_certificate_verification":"false"
}
```

If a configuration with the specified ID already exists, the request will succeed (return 200), but the configuration will NOT be updated. If you need to update an existing configuration, you need to remove it first and then re-add it.

# Removing an XMPP client connection.
An XMPP client connection (i.e. a MucClient) can be removed by posting a JSON which contains its ID to `/colibri/muc-client/remove`:
```
{
  "id": "new-client-connection"
}
```

The request will be successful (return 200) if an XMPP client connection was removed.

Commit message:

feat: Add /colibri/muc-client/list endpoint (#1680)
* feat: Add a REST endpoint for /colibri/muc-client/list to get list of configured muc client ids
* Update jicoco version to 1.1-89-g9ca691c
    * Adds README.md
    * chore: Fix and enforce import ordering.
    * Bump jetty-server from 9.4.40.v20210413 to 9.4.41.v20210516
    * Bump jetty-servlets from 9.4.40.v20210413 to 9.4.41.v20210516
    * feat: Add method to return ids of added clients

doc/rest-muc-client.md, after:

The configuration for the XMPP client connections that jitsi-videobridge uses can be modified at run time using REST calls to `/colibri/muc-client/`.

# Adding an XMPP client connection
A new XMPP client connection (i.e. a MucClient) can be added by posting a JSON which contains its configuration to `/colibri/muc-client/add`:
```
{
  "id": "new-client-connection",
  "domain":"xmpp.example.com",
  "hostname":"10.0.0.1",
  "username":"xmpp-username",
  "password":"xmpp-password",
  "muc_jids":"JvbBrewery@conference.xmpp.example.com",
  "muc_nickname":"unique-resource",
  "disable_certificate_verification":"false"
}
```

If a configuration with the specified ID already exists, the request will succeed (return 200), but the configuration will NOT be updated. If you need to update an existing configuration, you need to remove it first and then re-add it.

# Removing an XMPP client connection
An XMPP client connection (i.e. a MucClient) can be removed by posting a JSON which contains its ID to `/colibri/muc-client/remove`:
```
{
  "id": "new-client-connection"
}
```

The request will be successful (return 200) if an XMPP client connection was removed. 


# Listing XMPP client connections
IDs of previously added XMPP client connections can be listed using a GET call to `/colibri/muc-client/list`.
